What's this one called?
A platypus.
It's ugly.
Bri, I'm looking for a pet
not a date to the prom.
What are you guys looking at?
It's a book
about animals of the world.
ALF's trying to decide which one
he wants to get for a pet.
We already have a cat.
But you told me
to never play with my food.
Why do you want a pet?
Why does anyone want a pet?
The ultimate in power trips.
Bugs him
that I'm taller than he is now.
Well, power trips aside
there's no room in this house
for another pet
just at the moment.
Precisely why
I'm leaning towards a pet
we could keep outside.
i.e. your basic barnyard horse.
Here's the '89 Mustang.
We won't be getting a horse
or any other
barnyard-type animal
for that matter.
Thank you.
Let's wait until after dinner
to broach the buffalo.
[theme music]
[music continues]
[instrumental music]
Yeah. Yeah. Yee-haw.
Uh, ooh. Oh.
Whoa, whoa, boy. Whoa! Whoa! Oh.
I'mma not gonna fight
unless you take off
that funny hat
with the buckle on it, pilgrim.
Oh, not again.
Get me a horse,
or you're dead where you stand.
If you could, uh, dismount
for a moment
there's something
I'd like to show you.
Alright. This saddle's
giving me splinters anyway.
Whoa, boy, whoa!
I decided it might be good
for you to have a pet after all.
Oh, thank you!
Thank you! Thank you!
I'll feed him oats every day.
I'll even name him after you.
White Beauty.
It's not a horse,
but it's something
I think you'll like
just as much.
You got me a pet beach?
Look closer.
Bugs under glass.
It's an ant farm.
You're right, Willie. This is
just like having a horse.
You actually paid money
for this?
I paid 7.99, plus tax.
You were robbed!
An old soda bottle left outdoors
gives you the same effect.
You're missing the point, ALF.
Ants are fascinating.
And with this, you get a chance
to watch them work
and play
in a natural environment.
Willie, you call green windmills
and plastic trees
a natural environment?
Ants don't care about that.
All they want
is a place to tunnel
and dirt
they can call their own.
So where do I fit in?
Well, they're your pets.
You get to feed
and care for them.
And in return, they-they let you
in to their private lives.
They live in a picture window!
What kind of private lives
can they have?
Would you rather I return them?
Could they be exchanged
for something with fewer legs
and a saddle?
[instrumental music]
Okay.
Here, boy.
There you go. Go fetch.
Alright now, bring it back!
Come on!
Hey, I'm over here!
[footsteps approaching]
- Hey, ALF.
Well, if it isn't
the Tanner kids.
What brings you two
to this neck of the attic?
We just wanted to ask
how your ant farm was going.
- So ask.
- How's it going?
Don't ask.
They're not bonding
like I had hoped.
- What's wrong?
- I don't know.
I can't get these guys
to do anything.
All they care about
is building tunnels.
But that's what ants do, ALF.
How am I supposed to teach them
to sit and beg and speak?
You're not.
Ants aren't like other pets.
I guess you're right.
It's just that ant-farming
has a tendency to be uneventful.
Sort of like working security
at a Pat Boone concert.
But see, that's the way
mom and dad work.
They start you off small,
and then when you've proven
that you can handle
the responsibility
they'll let you have
something bigger.
So if I take care of these ants,
I could have, what, big ants?
My first pet was a turtle.
Oh, that must've been exciting.
Like watching a rock walk.
Have you read
this question-and-answer section
of your ant-watchers manual?
No. I was saving that
for bathroom reading.
Question.
"Do ants work all of the time?"
Answer,
"No, they work very hard
but they like to play, too."
I think she's right, ALF.
Look at those two.
It looks like they're wrestling.
Get out of town!
Oh, hey! Look at that!
He's got him in a facelock!
He's going to..
Ooh! Ooh,
right against the canvass!
Hey, ALF, look!
Now it's a tag-team match.
Oh! Oh, he's got him
in a 12-Nelson.
That can't be legal.
[instrumental music]
Yo, Kate,
I've got an etiquette question.
Do you throw white
or brown rice at a wedding?
I'd have to say white.
Don't you think, Willie?
Definitely brown.
That'd be gauche.
Thank you.
(ALF)
'Mazel tov! Mazel tov!'
'Throw the bouquet!'
Hey! Hey, ALF!
(ALF)
'In a second, Willie.'
'I'm taking pictures
for the wedding album.'
Wedding album?
Hey, what's going on in here?
Oh, would you look
at this mess?
Friends of the bride
or friends of the groom?
- What bride? What groom?
- Mattie and David.
The two crazy kids
who just tied the knot.
Hey, come on, you love bugs,
give us a smile.
Willie, look,
something is going on inside.
I think they're dancing.
Well, they're moving.
Well, the couple on the left,
Peg and Bob Becken
they came all the way in
from tunnel nine for this.
Hey, hey, Willie, would you mind
snapping a picture of me
and the wedding party?
I guess not.
Alright, everybody.
Say "Picnic."
Did I blink?
I don't think so, no.
You seem to have changed
your mind about ants, ALF.
I couldn't help it, Kate.
They've made me
a part of their lives.
We've broken bread together.
Well, actually, I broke it.
They just carried it around
on their heads.
Be honest now, ALF.
Aren't you glad
I got you that ant farm
instead of some silly old horse?
Let's be realistic, Willie.
A horse is a horse.
- Of course.
Well, if you'll excuse me
I've got to pick up
some rotting fruit.
I'm catering this affair.
¶ But he's got high hopes ¶
¶ He's got high hopes ¶
¶ He's got high.. ¶¶
[instrumental music]
[footsteps approaching]
- Hi, dad.
- Hi, Lynn. Is ALF around?
No. I'm waiting for him
so I can show him this calendar.
"Alan Thicke's World Of Ants."
Each month highlights a new ant.
This month
it's the fungus feeders
of South America.
Isn't it amazing how ugly things
get when they're magnified?
Did-did you bring ALF
something, too?
Oh, yeah, I just got
a few little things
to dress up the farm.
There's some plastic cows
and sheep.
I think there's even a tractor
in there somewhere.
[gasps]
He's gonna love these.
- Can I set them up?
- Yeah, sure.
Look at all this stuff!
There's sand refills,
there's liquid feeder.
There's even
a plastic ant model kit.
Uh, careful with that, dad
I think the glue's still wet.
Oh.
Yeah, it is.
Dad, I think there's something
wrong with ALF's ants.
They're not moving.
Well, they're probably scared
because you moved them.
Put 'em back, they'll be okay.
I don't think so.
I neglected to mention they're
also curled up on their backs.
Are they..
- They are.
- Tsk.
I guess it was the sun
that did it.
They've probably been
baking there all morning.
¶ Whoops there goes
a billion kilowatts ¶
¶ Whoops there.. ¶¶
Hi, Lynne Helm. Will Helm.
- Hi, ALF.
I brought you a present, ALF.
Hey! An ant calendar.
Thanks, Lynnie.
The boys love reading
about their distant cousins.
ALF, I think there's something
you should know about your ants.
I know, I know. Ants can't read.
It's just a little
anthropomorphic game
I like to play with them.
Actually, I was referring
to something else.
What?
Well, you remember you told me
what happens to orbit gnats
when they fly too close
to your ship's heat shield?
Yeah. Crispy critters.
Well, the same thing
can happen to an ant
when it's left in the sun
too long.
They look dead.
They are dead.
You sure
they're not sun-tanning?
[gasps]
Oh, I'm sorry, ALF.
Aah! Ah!
My poor little goombahs.
An hour ago
they were working the farm!
And now they've bought it.
[instrumental music]
[footsteps approaching]
You mind if I come in?
Eh.
I brought you a sandwich.
Thanks.
But I'm not really hungry.
Okay. Maybe later.
You wanna talk?
I'm trained in this area.
What's there to say?
My friends are gone.
I turned their home
into an Easy Bake Oven.
Case closed.
It was an accident, ALF.
You didn't do it intentionally.
Well, I keep thinking that
none of this would've happened
if I hadn't shampooed, rinsed
and repeated so many times.
People always need a reason
when they've had a loss.
Guilt,
it's a very natural reaction.
- Yeah? What about anger?
- It's very common.
Well, good, 'cause I'm peeved
at you for getting me
that ant farm
in the first place!
Well, that's good, ALF. Let it
out, let it, let it all out.
[breathing heavily]
I'm also mad at you
for not getting me that horse!
Horses are more resilient when
it comes to direct sunlight.
Yeah. Keep going on.
Uh, are you angry
at anyone else?
Yeah, yeah,
now that you mentioned it
CBS, for pulling the plug
on "Frank's Place."
Feeling better?
Actually, no.
If you want
I could get you
another ant farm.
Right, and if Kate kicks,
I'll get you another redhead.
I know it's hard for you
to believe right now
but tomorrow
you're gonna feel better
and then the next day
you'll feel even better
until one day, you'll actually..
...feel better.
Are you sure this is the area
you're trained in?
[instrumental music]
[chuckles]
Kate..
Cut it out.
(Kate)
'Huh?'
[chuckling]
Tickling me.
No, I'm not touching you.
There are ants on me.
There, there are ants
in my pajamas.
There are ants everywhere.
Yes, yes.
I-I can see that, dear.
[clears throat]
I'll just get the bug spray.
I'll help you.
(Kate)
'Why are there so many ants
in the house all of a sudden?'
Perhaps
these strategically-placed
dishes of food
might give us a clue.
Ah, just once I would like
to walk into this kitchen
and not find something
all over the floor.
Just go into the other room,
Kate. I'll-I'll spray in here.
Why don't we just burn
the place down and start over?
That'd be plan B. Plan A is
where's the bug spray?
I threw it away.
Why did you do this?
Do what?
Throw away the bug spray?
Or set up
the teeny-weeny truck stops?
Eventually, you're going
to have to explain both
so start where you like
and stop when I tell you.
I'm dedicating my life
to the care and preservation
of the ant species.
ALF, if you leave food
all over the house
we are going to have ants
everywhere.
It's the least
I can do for them
after I wiped out
their kinfolk and everything.
ALF, inviting the remainder
of the Earth's ant population
into our house
isn't gonna bring back
your ant farm.
But I'll feel better.
ALF, you've got
to get over this.
I failed to protect
my pet ants, Willie.
I'm not gonna fail
with the general ant public.
[sighs]
Trust me, ALF.
Your ants stand
a much better chance of survival
outside of my kitchen.
Wait a minute. I've got an idea.
Nothing doing.
This time he's mine.
No, wait, wa.. Kate.
ALF might not feel as bad
about losing his ants
if he just had a chance
to say goodbye to them formally
like, you know, uh,
like a memorial service.
A funeral for ants?
What a lovely idea.
- But I don't think it'll help.
- Well, sure it will, ALF.
Rituals are a very effective way
of dealing with grief.
I'm just not up to it.
You'll have a funeral,
we'll all come
it'll be very touching!
[shouting]
And it'll be over, right?
Right.
Then we'll have a picnic.
[instrumental music]
Is this the wreath
you were talking about?
Yes. Thank you.
Where shall I put it?
Anywhere near the tombstones
will be fine.
Very thoughtful.
I thought so.
Kate! Isn't that dress
a little loud for the occasion?
Well, forgive me. I have
no maternity funeral wear.
- Shall we begin?
- We shall.
Please, my friends, sit, relax
make yourselves comfortable.
Can I take off my armband?
No!
Before I start, I would like
to thank Kate Tanner
for the lovely picnic basket
and fixings.
And also Brian Tanner
for helping me eat
all those ice-cream bars
that provided
those lovely headstones.
[clapping]
We gather here today
to pay homage
to a colony of mirth-makers
known affectionately
as my ants.
In five short days
these wiry sexpeds
tunneled a pathway
into our hearts.
Now they rest beside me
symmetrically placed
victims of an unkind midday sun.
At this time
it would be appropriate
to say a few kind words
in their memory.
Willie, would you start us off?
Uh, yeah. Sure.
I didn't know the ants
as well as ALF.
I don't think anybody did.
But, to me
they embodied the word
"Friendly."
Their house was your house.
I shall miss them.
Well, uh..
Of all the ants I've ever known
they were the most contained.
I'll miss them, too.
They were very industrious.
So long, guys.
[whispers]
Go.
I liked Spunky.
The long one with the big head.
He could really dig.
But, of course,
he was just one of many.
There were Sybil
and Jerry, who worked graveyard
so they could spend their days
with the larvae.
Chad, Tyler
Zach, Logan and Jenna and also--
- ALF.
- Yes, Kate?
- Something to add?
- Uh..
I was just wondering
if your eulogy
was gonna be much longer.
There's a stream of ants
swarming all over the food.
They're mourners, Kate.
No. They're after the chicken.
Okay. I'll cut to the chase.
"Goodbye, Abner, Allen, Alicia
"Amy, Aunt Bee, Auntie Emma
Esther, Est, Eunice.."
[instrumental music]
[ALF chomping]
I see you found
the picnic leftovers.
It's amazing!
I almost got my appetite back.
Amazing.
You ate all that chicken?
Yeah. I didn't even want
the last two pieces.
It was just the momentum.
Well, you seem to be back
to your old self.
I guess. But I still have
this dull ache inside.
You've been through
a great deal of pain
in the last 24 hours, ALF.
It's just your body
responding to that.
Nah. I think
it's Kate's potato salad.
I've had problems with it
before.
[burps]
[instrumental music]
- What's that, ALF?
- It's a letter!
From "The Morton Downey Show."
"Dear Mr. Shumway
"thank you
for your recent suggestion
that we devote a segment
to the civil rights of ants."
Yes! Yes!
"Unfortunately
"we find the topic unsuitable
for our current needs."
No. No.
Wait. There's more.
Uh, "We are, however,
very interested
"in having you appear
on an upcoming segment entitled
'Obsessive Compulsives With
Too Much Time On Their Hands.'"
And Willie said I was crazy
to send that letter.
[theme music]
[ALF laughing]
[instrumental music]